README.md, before:

# react-pig

> Arrange images in a responsive, progressive-loading grid managed in JavaScript using CSS transforms.

[View Demo](https://pigreact.netlify.com/)

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-pig.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-pig)
![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/react-pig.svg?style=flat-square)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://standardjs.com)

A re-implementation of @schlosser's [pig.js](https://github.com/schlosser/pig.js/) in React.

Instead of hosting images locally I've used Cloudinary - an image hosting provider, which adds the benefit of on-the-fly image resizing. So we don't need to worry about managing/generating multiple versions of an image at different resolutions. Like the original version of Pig.js we still need to provide an array of objects containing metadata about each image. I've created a node script `upload.js` to do this for us, see below section on `upload.js`.

In addition each image is now clickable and will expand to the center of the screen. It uses React Spring to handle the transition.

## React-pig-utils
React Pig requires that a specific JSON format be supplied. So this project comes with a companion repo which provides utilities for doing that. Check it out here [react-pig-utils](https://github.com/nickmcmillan/react-pig-utils).


## Example usage of react-pig

```
yarn add react-pig
# or
npm i react-pig
```

```
import Pig from 'react-pig'
import imageData from './imageData.json' // the file generated by using react-pig-utils

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Pig
        imageData={imageData} // Array. Required.
        groupByDate // Boolean. Optional. Groups images by 'date' value. And uses the first 'location' in the group for the heading text.
        gridGap={10} // Integer. Optional. Defaults to 8
        expandedSize={1600} // Integer. Optional. Expanded image will be loaded in that size. Defaults to 1000
        thumbnailSize={25} // Integer. Optional. Thumbnail image will be loaded in that size. Defaults to 10
        sortFunc={(a, b) => a.imageOrder > b.imageOrder} // Function. Optional. Used for sorting images f.ex. if you add custom fields to the json file
        bgColor="#fff" // String. Optional. Used for outlines when image is expanded, and for group headings
        getUrl={(url, pxHeight) => {
          // Pig calls this function every time it needs to fetch an image.
          // The url arg will be provided as is from imageData
          // Assuming the imageData was generated using upload.js, the url string will contain {{HEIGHT}}
          // The purpose of this function is to replace {{HEIGHT}} value with a dynamic value (which is passed in with pxHeight)
          // Eg this:
          // http://res.cloudinary.com/cloudinaryusername/image/upload/h_{{HEIGHT}}/v12345678/cloudinaryfolder/image.jpg
          // Becomes this:
          // http://res.cloudinary.com/cloudinaryusername/image/upload/h_800/v12345678/cloudinaryfolder/image.jpg
          // This gives you flexibility to define what the url looks like in case you're using something other than Cloudinary.
          // getUrl is optional.
          // If you omit this prop completely, Pig will do exactly this;
        }}
        handleClick={(event, item) => {}} // Allows for a custom click handler
        selectable={true} // If true, it will add a selection to the top left corner
        handleSelection={(item) =>{}} // Allows for a custom selection handler
        selectedItems={selectedItems} // Array. Makes it possible to change the state of the selected tiles
        overlay={component} // Add a component to the top right corner as an overlay
      />
    )
  }
}

export default App
```
## Development

You have to install yarn:
```
npm install --global yarn
```
Use the yarn commands to install and continuously build react-pig:
```
yarn install
yarn run build
yarn start
```
To test your changes to the component, build and serve the example:
```
cd /example
yarn install
yarn start
```
You should now be able to see the website, with the changed component, at localhost:3000

This React library was packaged with https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/create-react-library


## License

MIT © [nickmcmillan](https://github.com/nickmcmillan)

Commit message:

Implement scaleOfImages
- It is now possible to change the number pf images and scale with a simple parameter

README.md, after:

# react-pig

> Arrange images in a responsive, progressive-loading grid managed in JavaScript using CSS transforms.

[View Demo](https://pigreact.netlify.com/)

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-pig.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-pig)
![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/react-pig.svg?style=flat-square)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://standardjs.com)

A re-implementation of @schlosser's [pig.js](https://github.com/schlosser/pig.js/) in React.

Instead of hosting images locally I've used Cloudinary - an image hosting provider, which adds the benefit of on-the-fly image resizing. So we don't need to worry about managing/generating multiple versions of an image at different resolutions. Like the original version of Pig.js we still need to provide an array of objects containing metadata about each image. I've created a node script `upload.js` to do this for us, see below section on `upload.js`.

In addition each image is now clickable and will expand to the center of the screen. It uses React Spring to handle the transition.

## React-pig-utils
React Pig requires that a specific JSON format be supplied. So this project comes with a companion repo which provides utilities for doing that. Check it out here [react-pig-utils](https://github.com/nickmcmillan/react-pig-utils).


## Example usage of react-pig

```
yarn add react-pig
# or
npm i react-pig
```

```
import Pig from 'react-pig'
import imageData from './imageData.json' // the file generated by using react-pig-utils

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Pig
        imageData={imageData} // Array. Required.
        scaleOfImage={3} // Number. Show more or less images. This value would show 3x more images
        groupByDate // Boolean. Optional. Groups images by 'date' value. And uses the first 'location' in the group for the heading text.
        gridGap={10} // Integer. Optional. Defaults to 8
        expandedSize={1600} // Integer. Optional. Expanded image will be loaded in that size. Defaults to 1000
        thumbnailSize={25} // Integer. Optional. Thumbnail image will be loaded in that size. Defaults to 10
        sortFunc={(a, b) => a.imageOrder > b.imageOrder} // Function. Optional. Used for sorting images f.ex. if you add custom fields to the json file
        bgColor="#fff" // String. Optional. Used for outlines when image is expanded, and for group headings
        getUrl={(url, pxHeight) => {
          // Pig calls this function every time it needs to fetch an image.
          // The url arg will be provided as is from imageData
          // Assuming the imageData was generated using upload.js, the url string will contain {{HEIGHT}}
          // The purpose of this function is to replace {{HEIGHT}} value with a dynamic value (which is passed in with pxHeight)
          // Eg this:
          // http://res.cloudinary.com/cloudinaryusername/image/upload/h_{{HEIGHT}}/v12345678/cloudinaryfolder/image.jpg
          // Becomes this:
          // http://res.cloudinary.com/cloudinaryusername/image/upload/h_800/v12345678/cloudinaryfolder/image.jpg
          // This gives you flexibility to define what the url looks like in case you're using something other than Cloudinary.
          // getUrl is optional.
          // If you omit this prop completely, Pig will do exactly this;
        }}
        handleClick={(event, item) => {}} // Allows for a custom click handler
        selectable={true} // If true, it will add a selection to the top left corner
        handleSelection={(item) =>{}} // Allows for a custom selection handler
        selectedItems={selectedItems} // Array. Makes it possible to change the state of the selected tiles
        overlay={component} // Add a component to the top right corner as an overlay
      />
    )
  }
}

export default App
```
## Development

You have to install yarn:
```
npm install --global yarn
```
Use the yarn commands to install and continuously build react-pig:
```
yarn install
yarn run build
yarn start
```
To test your changes to the component, build and serve the example:
```
cd /example
yarn install
yarn start
```
You should now be able to see the website, with the changed component, at localhost:3000

This React library was packaged with https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/create-react-library


## License

MIT © [nickmcmillan](https://github.com/nickmcmillan)
